DOCSP-31907 Split Event (#457)
mongodb/docs-java: source/fundamentals/crud/read-operations/change-streams.txt

      ...
   }

Split Large Change Stream Events
--------------------------------

Starting in MongoDB 7.0, you can use the ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent``

> aggregation stage to split events that exceed 16 MB into smaller fragments.

Author: Added in a separate PR: https://github.com/mongodb/docs-java/pull/460

For a list of options, see the `FullDocument <{+api+}/apidocs/mongodb-driver-core/com/mongodb/client/model/changestream/FullDocument.html>`__
API documentation.

Split Large Change Stream Events
--------------------------------

> Starting in MongoDB 7.0, you can use a ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent``

Reviewer: Suggestion:
Use the specific article "the" since only one of them exists.
```suggestion
Starting in MongoDB 7.0, you can use the ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent``
```

aggregation stage to split events that exceed 16 MB into smaller fragments.

> ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent`` returns the fragments sequentially using the

Reviewer: Suggestions:

- I think that the operator does not return anything, but the stage and pipeline do. Just for accuracy, I would specify what returns the fragments.
- The style guide recommends "by using" instead of "using".
- I think "using the change stream cursor" could be better in a separate phrase or sentence.

E.g.
"The $changeStreamSplitLargeEvent stage returns the fragments sequentially. The fragments can be accessed by using a change stream cursor."

change stream cursor. Each fragment includes a ``SplitEvent`` object containing
the following fields:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1
   :widths: 35 65

   * - Field
     - Description

   * - ``fragment``

>      - The index of the fragment, starting at 1

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think it could be good to indicate that "1" is a value by either using quotes or monospace.

   * - ``of``

>      - The total number of fragments in the event

Reviewer: Suggestion:

Partially because Vale picked this up, but since "in the event" could be interpreted as an idiom, I think it could be good to reword it, and provide additional detail. E.g.

"The total number of fragments that compose the split change event

> Enable the ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent`` aggregation on your change stream as

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think "enable the ... aggregation" might not be an accurate term to describe setting up the change stream. I think the "modify change stream output" or "control change stream output" could work better as described in the [Server manual docs](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/changeStreams/#modify-change-stream-output)

E.g.
The following example modifies your change stream to split large events:

shown in the following example:

.. code-block:: java

   ChangeStreamIterable<Document> changeStream = collection.watch(
         Arrays.asList(Document.parse("{ $changeStreamSplitLargeEvent: {} }")));

.. note::

   You can have only one ``$changeStreamSplitLargeEvent`` stage in your
   aggregation pipeline, and it must be the last stage in the pipeline.

> You can access the ``SplitEvent`` by using your change stream cursor with the
> ``getSplitEvent()`` as follows:

Reviewer: Suggestion:
I think sentences are easier to understand when limiting them to one association. In this sentence there are two -- "by using" and "with" -- which can make the associations ambiguous.

```suggestion
You can call the getSplitEvent() method on your change stream cursor to access the SplitEvent as shown in the following example:
```

.. code-block:: java

   MongoChangeStreamCursor<ChangeStreamDocument<Document>> cursor = changeStream.cursor();
   
   // Application code that creates change stream events

>    // ...

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think these lines aren't relevant to the example and should be omitted. The other lines demonstrate the objective, and it's not required for the reader to use the same app that watches for change events to also generate them.

   SplitEvent event = cursor.tryNext().getSplitEvent();

> For more information about accessing data from a cursor, see :ref:`java-fundamentals-cursor`.

Reviewer: Suggestion:

I think it might be useful to either qualify this information, given that it doesn't include specific information on change stream cursors, or omit it. To qualify the information, first it would be helpful to check what similarities the two different types of cursors have and then to include that.

Hypothetically, if MongoChangeStreamCursor extended MongoCursor, I would suggest something like the following:

The MongoChangeStreamCursor extends MongoCursor and shares the same methods to access data. To learn how to access data from a MongoCursor, see ...

Author: Removed this line since it's a ChangeStreamCursor not a MongoCursor
